TASK 1
1. Define Management vs Individual Team Member
Management is responsible for planning and delegating the task that needs to be completed, where individual team member is responsible for carrying out that task and making sure it's finished within their promised timeframe.

2. What is a role vs responsiblity?
Role is a title that an employee holds, it definies their skillset and position within the organization. Responsiblity varies on the role that the employee has, it is more an obligation to complete specific task rather than perform a duty. 

3. What are the 4 key roles of management? 
- planning: management is responsible for outlining limits for resources, time, budget, scope and risk of the project 
- organizing: management is responsible for delegating specific tasks among different teams, allocating resources, developing hireranhy of roles, setting up policies 
- leading: management is responsible for making sure the employees remain motivated, they listen to employees and resolve any potential issues that may arise, as well as, provide healthy environment where leader is not afraid to speak up and make critical decisions 
- controlling:  

4. What are the main responsiblities of Management? 
- setting goals 
- allocating resources
- monitoring peformance
- carrying out employee reviews 

5. What are some roles of an individual team member? 
- 
- 

6. What is the difference between a manager and a leader?
Manager is responsible for planning, delegating and ensuring the project goes smoothly and fits within the dedicated resources, where leader is ensuring that the team is motivated and dedicated to complete the allocated tasks.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

TASK 3: Leadership Stylesyles 
1. Provide a definition in your own words
Tranformational (transformejszonal) - requires a leader that is charismatic and cooperative to members of the team and pushses them forward. The goal of this leadership is to inspire, keep the employees motivated by encouriging them to creative thinking, and create an environment where people are not afraid to speak up.

2. Inspiration: how does transformational leadership inspire and motivate team members to go beyond their normal performance levels?
Members are being supported by the leader, they are not afraid to speak up, their opinions are values and listened to. Leader creates healthy working environment, pushes the team members to do better, to be more creative and encourages them to try out new approaches. Encourages free thinking.

3. Change Management: How effective is transofmrational leadership in managing organizational change and innovation? What are the key strategies used?
One of the main strategies used is allowing team members to freely speak out, which encourages inspiration and innovation, it allows team members to be more experimental. It drives change and growth.

4. Leader-Employee Relationship: How does a transformational leader build strong relationship with their team members? What impact does this have on team cohesion? 
The leader connects with the employees, keeps positive energy withing the team, devoids conflicts, pushes the team members and makes them feel appreciated, which results in employees higher performance.

5. Challenges: What are the potential challenges or pitfalls of transofmatrional leadership? How can leader address these issues? 
Team members can find maintaining high standards stressful, it leads to possible burnouts and pressure. 

6. Personal Impact: Share an experience where transofmational leadership made a significant difference in a project or organization. What were the outcomes? 



All 5 questions combined:
Transformational leadership requires a leader that is charismatic and cooperative to members of the team, and pushes them forward. This style sets high standards but also encourages the team members to creative thinking. It is an environment where people are not afraid to speak up.
This also keeps the members motivated, as they know they will be listened to and their ideas wont be rejected. Leader also pushes team members to do better and encourages new approaches, as well as free-thinking. 
All of that drives change and growth, it keeps the members inspired. 
Leader connects with the employees, keeps positive energy within the team, devoids conflicts which has impact on team members performance. 
On the down side, maintaining the high standards can be stressful, it can lead to burnouts and pressure. 




------------------------------------------------

TASK 4: Personal Leadership Style
Tyle: Transformational leadership resonates with me the most. 
Definition: It is a style that focuses on inspiring and motivating team members to achieve high standards and do their best. It also promotes personal growth.
Personal Connection: In past I held managerial role and this style aligns with my values and personality because I believe people should be kept motivated, inspired and encouraged to do better. By creating healthy environment, staying positive, as well as encouraging team members to speak up - they are more likely to do their best. The connection they build with the leader makes them meet these high standards, as they don't want to disappoint the leader. 
Personal Experience: One of the examples could be when I was covering my Scrum Master for few weeks, my bubbly personality, positive attitude and big attention to detail make the team members to ensure they kept their task deadlines, if there were issues - they were transparent about them. Standards have not slipped, I would say these even improved. 
Impact: Transformational leadership inspires and motivates team members, leading to higher engagement, productivity, and personal growth. Approach of promoting open communication and trust encourages accountability and strengthens the bond between the leader and the team, making them more committed to meeting high standards.
Potential Challenges: some of the challenges are potential burnout and pressure of high expectations. To overcome these issues, leader can ensure clear guidance is provided, adjust expectations when needed, and promote well-being to prevent burnout. Open and frequent feedback can help to ensure that team members feel supported and listened.


